Annual incidence: 1.2 million Americans.
I'm a tech; I'm into medical gadgetry, which is mostly high-tech stuff like Mr. Bono talked about.
Now, unfortunately, us technical people, unlike Mr. Bono, have to get into all these technical words.
And that's how I'll use my 100,000-dollar prize money.
Mortality: 300,000 people dying each year.
(Applause) The second wish is, at the present time, the clinical trials of transcranial magnetic stimulators -- that's what TMS means, device to treat migraine headaches -- appears to be quite successful.
Well, the next thing they have to show is what was on ABC News, Channel 7, last week in New York City, in the 11 o'clock news.
The AMI, Acute Myocardial Infarction, which is a doctor's big word so they can charge you more money -- (Laughter) -- means a heart attack.
(Applause) And, of the 100,000-dollar prize money, that TED was so generous to give me, I am donating 50,000 dollars to the NeuroPace people to get on with the treatment of OCD, obsessive-compulsive disorder, and I'm making another 50,000 available for a company to optimize the design of the device for migraines.
Your rhythm becomes irregular, and that's what happened 45 minutes later.
Christina Sidebottom: Well, my first reaction was that it was -- looked awfully gun-like, and it was very strange.
And consider treating psychotic disorders -- and I want this involved with the TED group -- such as obsessive-compulsive disorder that, presently, is not well treated with drugs, and includes five million Americans.
Eyewitness news reporter Stacy Sager tonight, with a small and portable machine that literally zaps your migraines away.
(Laughter) That's the present system.
The first wish is to use the epilepsy responsive neurostimulator, called RNS, for Responsive NeuroStimulator -- that's a brilliant acronym -- for the treatment of other brain disorders.
And finally he says, "OK, now I'm going to -- " all of the aura get erased with an appropriately placed magnetic pulse.
We're putting in a copper stent, and this copper stent erodes the artery and causes heart attacks.
Then, on Friday at 6:43, he began to get certain signs, which later we had the pig run around -- I'm not going to go into this early stage.
I've seen pictures, graphs in today's USA Today showing it skyrocketing out of control, and this is one factor.
What is the response to acute myocardial infarction, a heart attack, today?
What do you think someone has at the end of reading 12 single-spaced pages?
