Reserve component -- National Guard reserves overwhelmingly Sys Admin.
International organizations, non-governmental organizations, private voluntary organizations, contractors.
What we need is an international reconstruction fund -- Sebastian Mallaby, Washington Post, great idea.
I tell young officers, "You may command 500 ships in your career.
(Laughter) Read Max Boon.
(Laughter) Some people say 9/11 heals the rift -- jerks the long-term transformation gurus out of their 30,000 foot view of history, drags them down in to the muck and says, "You want a networked opponent?
(Laughter) Including us, I would remind you.
They throw up anti-access, area-denial asymmetrical strategies.
Like Saddam, like Mugabe, like Kim Jong-Il -- people who kill in hundreds of thousands or millions.
(Laughter) I want to keep trigger-pullers trigger-happy.
The 19-year-olds get tired from the switching, OK?
(Laughter) The doctor says, "Stop doing that you idiot."
TSA -- thousands standing around.
You're going to build the Sys Admin Force inside the U.S. Military first.
(Applause) Other differences.
Some people say, "Hell, 9/11 did it for you."
(Laughter) And they'd say, "Dr. Barnett, you are so right.
(Laughter) The Department of Homeland Security is a strategic feel good measure.
(Laughter) Trojan horses on our computer networks reveal all our Achilles' heels instantly.
I'd say, "You're buying one military and you're operating another, and eventually it's going to hurt.
(Laughter) The United States has to access that battle space instantaneously.
So we say, area-denial, anti-access asymmetrical strategies and their eyes glaze over.
It's the IMF Sovereign Bankruptcy Plan, OK?
So that overmatched capability creates problems -- catastrophic successes the White House calls them.
They've got Milosevic right now.
(Laughter) I call it the Smart Dust Navy.
Bad Pentagon, bad!"
They said, "Al Qaeda could be listening."
Air force, strategic airlift goes both ways.
Written into our constitution, two different forces, two different functions.
I say, "Great, I'm going to take the Sys Admin budget out of your hide."
(Laughter) I'm talking about the 1990s.
You've got to track coalition partners.
That plus nukes rules out great power war.
No looting, no military disappearing, no arms disappearing, no ammo disappearing, no Muqtada al-Sadr -- I'm wrecking his bones -- no insurgency.
You'll see the pattern -- airborne, just like carriers.
