The gang leader always got paid, OK?
That 14-year-old kid would say: "Oh, well ..." You know, he would say to his friends, "Hey, look at all the money I got in the gang."
It contains adult themes, adult language.
My co-author, Sudhir Venkatesh, is the main character.
You know, cocaine's a great product -- powdered cocaine -- but you've got to know rich white people.
And the mantra was: shoot first; ask questions later.
Then along comes crack cocaine.
(Laughter) Sudhir, on the other hand, got right back -- walked down to the housing project.
And you and I, probably, faced with the situation, would think, well, I guess I'm going to write my dissertation on The Grateful Dead.
(Laughter) Because crack cocaine was an unbelievable innovation.
And he comes around the corner -- finds a group of young African-American men playing dice.
So Sudhir went home.
So economists talk about game theory -- that every two-person game has a Nash equilibrium.
And the famous sociologist, William Julius Wilson, was doing a book that involved surveying people all across Chicago.
And I thought about it, and I said, "CEOs often pay themselves million-dollar bonuses, even when companies are losing a lot of money.
Just like, say, a lawyer at a law firm -- a first-year lawyer is wiling to start at the bottom, work 80-hour weeks for not that much money, because they think they're going to make partner.
It was one of the most unequal co-authoring relationships ever -- (Laughter) -- but I was glad to be the beneficiary of it.
So there are striking similarities, I think, to the Internet boom, right?
(Laughter) Here's another one.
(Laughter) Makes you wonder about academics, OK?
It's an interesting story, I think.
And in the words of Malcolm Gladwell, crack cocaine was the extra-chunky version of tomato sauce for the inner city.
He's a South Asian -- very dark-skinned South Asian.
(Laughter) So his greeting was not particularly warm, but they did say, well, OK -- let's hear your questions on your survey.
