They've got incredible people skills, negotiating skills.
You're walking till dawn.
It's by a guy called Yuan Chen: "I cannot bear to put away the bamboo sleeping mat.
They have songs, poems, novels, sculptures, paintings, myths, legends.
And, indeed, these people would say "Yes!"
In these three brain systems: lust, romantic love and attachment -- don't always go together.
And -- basic math!
They said, "Yes."
And I also think that you gravitate to certain people, actually, with somewhat complementary brain systems.
As one Polynesian said, he said, "I felt like jumping in the sky."
And, "Wasn't that rickshaw driver handsome!"
In the Western world, women start sooner at sex, have more partners, express less remorse for the partners that they do, marry later, have fewer children, leave bad marriages in order to get good ones.
I know one girl who's been on these antidepressants, serotonin-enhancing -- SSRI, serotonin-enhancing antidepressants -- since she was 13.
And indeed, they would say, "All day.
You become extremely sexually possessive.
They're highly imaginative.
With the beginning of plow agriculture, men's roles became extremely powerful.
(Laughter) When the male brain works well, it works extremely well.
(Laughter) Anyway.
But these three brain systems: lust, romantic love and attachment, aren't always connected to each other.
But I will end by saying that millions of years ago, we evolved three basic drives: the sex drive, romantic love and attachment to a long-term partner.
I would even say that with Viagra, estrogen replacement, hip replacements and the incredibly interesting women -- women have never been as interesting as they are now.
I'd like to talk today about the two biggest social trends in the coming century, and perhaps in the next 10,000 years.
As Chaucer said, "Love is blind."
"Oh, well -- men are more adulterous!"
Women's ability to find the right word rapidly, basic articulation goes up in the middle of the menstrual cycle, when estrogen levels peak.
