Concourse Two: Dallas, Fort Worth.
(Laughter) "And, I mean, funny things like this happen.
Mrs. Young-Soon Han.
(Applause) When I started this project called "On the Road: A Search For an American Character" with my tape recorder, I thought that I was going to go around America and find it in all its aspects -- bull riders, cowboys, pig farmers, drum majorettes -- but I sort of got tripped on race relations, because my first big show was a show about a race riot.
I watched in Korea many luxurious Hollywood lifestyle movie.
I mean, like, Pat O'Mealey always said when I was a boy, he say, 'You know, you got more try than any kid I ever seen.'
Huck says, 'Yeah.'
"And four months before this happened, four months before Myesha died, I thought I could really fix this man.
And that voice, without losing a beat, says, 'Because of late entry, we're delayed 30 seconds.'
(Laughter) That's Tuff Hedeman, in the movie '8 Seconds.'
(Applause) So, talk about risk taking.
Everybody knows that the Los Angeles riots happened because four cops beat up a black man named Rodney King.
It happened continuously, repeatedly.
So we got this voice on this train: Concourse One: Omaha, Lincoln.
Finally, I did find a bull rider, two years ago.
They destroyed innocent people.
And I title things because I think people speak in organic poems, and this is called "A Mirror to Her Mouth."
He say, 'You've got to help me.'
"Well, I'm an optimist.
Many African-Americans who never work got minimum amount of money to survive.
"Oh, let me kind of tell you a funny little play bit.
I said, 'Well look, the woman talked to me for four hours.
And I still feel as though I've got to get coffee for my male colleagues, even though I've outlived most of them."
And what a lot of people forget, is there was a second trial, ordered by George Bush, Sr. And that trial came back with two cops going to jail and two cops declared innocent.
And she said, "Well, personally, I still feel like I have to curtsey when I see the president of my university.
