The price performance, bandwidth, capacity of communications measured many different ways; wired, wireless is growing exponentially.
One little software program, called the fat insulin receptor gene, basically says, "Hold onto every calorie, because the next hunting season may not work out so well."
Images will be written directly to our retina, providing full-immersion virtual reality, augmented real reality.
Information technologies double their capacity, price performance, bandwidth, every year.
I mean, people didn't build iPods for 10,000 dollars 10 years ago.
There are remarkably smooth exponential curves that govern price performance, capacity, bandwidth.
I mean, anything that we can quantify, we have hundreds of different measurements of different, information-related measurements -- capacity, adoption rates -- and they basically double every 12, 13, 15 months, depending on what you're looking at.
And the first step took tens of thousands of years -- stone tools, fire, the wheel -- kept accelerating.
Many -- even scientists -- assume a linear model, so they'll say, "Oh, it'll be hundreds of years before we have self-replicating nano-technology assembly or artificial intelligence."
The actual paradigm-shift rate, the rate of adopting new ideas, is doubling every decade, according to our models.
As the price performance makes new applications feasible, new applications come to the market.
These nano-bots I mentioned will first be used for medical and health applications: cleaning up the environment, providing powerful fuel cells and widely distributed decentralized solar panels and so on in the environment.
There's one nano-engineered device that cures type 1 diabetes.
I mean, you'd think this is the result of some tabletop experiment, but this is the result of worldwide chaotic behavior -- countries accusing each other of dumping products, IPOs, bankruptcies, marketing programs.
And 10 years into the project, the skeptics were still going strong -- says, "You're two-thirds through this project, and you've managed to only sequence a very tiny percentage of the whole genome."
Magnetic data storage -- that's not Moore's Law, it's shrinking magnetic spots, different engineers, different companies, same exponential process.
Being from the Massachusetts high-tech community myself, I'd point out that we were hippies also in the 1960s, although we hung around Harvard Square.
The amount of genetic data -- basically this shows that smooth exponential growth doubled every year, enabling the genome project to be completed.
We've had 28 percent per year compounded growth in dollars in information technology over the last 50 years.
There's actually a -- for the first time now, something going to human trials, that actually cures pulmonary hypertension -- a fatal disease -- using gene therapy.
If you put different communication technologies on this logarithmic graph, television, radio, telephone were adopted in decades.
