In New York State, Robert Moses spearheaded an aggressive highway expansion campaign.
Low-income citizens often use emergency room visits as primary care.
Anyway -- (Laughter) (Applause) OK. Katrina.
Well, first of all, we're all incredibly good-looking -- (Laughter) -- graduated high school, college, post-graduate degrees, traveled to interesting places, didn't have kids in your early teens, financially stable, never been imprisoned.
His administration narrowed key municipal thoroughfares from five lanes to three, outlawed parking on those streets, expanded pedestrian walkways and bike lanes, created public plazas, created one of the most efficient bus mass-transit systems in the entire world.
Think bike shops, juice stands.
We secured 20 million dollars to build first-phase projects.
So when I was contacted by the Parks Department about a $10,000 seed grant initiative seed grant initiative to help develop waterfront projects, I thought they were really well-meaning, but a bit naive.
Now, what's missing from the larger debate is a comprehensive cost-benefit analysis between not fixing an unhealthy, environmentally challenged community, versus incorporating structural, sustainable changes.
Because from a planning perspective, economic degradation begets environmental degradation, which begets social degradation.
His administration attacked several typical urban problems at one time, and on a third-world budget at that.
When she came into my life, we were fighting against a huge waste facility planned for the East River waterfront, despite the fact that our small part of New York City already handled more than 40 percent of the entire city's commercial waste: a sewage treatment pelletizing plant, a sewage sludge plant, four power plants, the world's largest food distribution center, as well as other industries that bring more than 60,000 diesel truck trips to the area each week.
(Laughter) But grassroots groups are needed at the table during the decision-making process.
These land-use decisions created the hostile conditions that lead to problems like obesity, diabetes and asthma.
Support investments with a triple-bottom-line return.
Because on top of that, the world's richest sports team is replacing the House That Ruth Built by destroying two well-loved community parks.
People stopped littering; crime rates dropped -- because the streets were alive with people.
We leveraged that $10,000 seed grant more than 300 times into a $3 million park.
And although less than 25 percent of South Bronx residents own cars, these projects include thousands of new parking spaces, yet zip in terms of mass public transit.
