We could give clean drinking water, sanitation, basic healthcare and education to every single human being on the planet.
Basically, if we invest 27 billion dollars over the next eight years, we could avoid 28 new million cases of HIV/AIDS.
Two billion people without sanitation.
We're actually talking about a fairly rich Dutch guy.
We have, you know, "The Day After Tomorrow" -- it looks great, right?
There's a billion people without clean drinking water.
We could avoid about 500,000 people dying, but perhaps more importantly, we could avoid about a [million] people getting infected every year.
We identified 10 of the biggest challenges in the world, and I will just briefly read them: climate change, communicable diseases, conflicts, education, financial instability, governance and corruption, malnutrition and hunger, population migration, sanitation and water, and subsidies and trade barriers.
The incidence of malaria is about a couple of [million] people get infected every year.
Of course, we should do all things, in an ideal world -- I would certainly agree.
The amazing part of this process -- and of course, I mean, I would love to -- I only have 18 minutes, I've already given you quite a substantial amount of my time, right?
The fair projects -- notice I'm not going to comment on all these -- but communicable diseases, scale of basic health services -- just made it, simply because, yes, scale of basic health services is a great thing.
And I think, actually -- Thomas Schelling, one of the participants in the dream team, he put it very, very well.
And of course, I'm very happy you asked that question -- (Laughter) -- because that's a very good question.
I'm not going to talk about "The Skeptical Environmentalist" -- probably that's also a good choice.
It could be a family-size pizza; it could be a very individual-size pizza, right?
This third best one was free trade.
Then we had some of the world's top economists, eight of the world's top economists, including three Nobel Laureates, meet in Copenhagen in May 2004.
You know, when you ask the world's best economists, you inevitably end up asking old, white American men.
There are 800 million people starving.
