Chimpanzees, gorillas, orangutans also learn human sign language.
Jane Goodall: Two, two, I'm going to take two.
And as I was traveling around, I kept meeting young people who'd lost hope.
(Applause) I've been studying chimpanzees in Tanzania since 1960.
Chris Anderson: One -- one to two.
Good morning everyone.
They're disappearing because some timber companies go in with clear-cutting.
They're given weapons; they shoot for the logging camps; they get money.
(Laughter) Anyway -- so basically, Roots and Shoots is beginning to change young people's lives.
One for animals, including domestic animals -- and I have to say, I learned everything I know about animal behavior even before I got to Gombe and the chimps from my dog, Rusty, who was my childhood companion.
Everywhere there are children with shining eyes saying, "Look at the difference we've made."
So that when Louis Leakey, my mentor, heard this news, he said, "Ah, we must now redefine 'man,' redefine 'tool,' or accept chimpanzees as humans."
(Laughter) We now know that at Gombe alone, there are nine different ways in which chimpanzees use different objects for different purposes.
Moreover, we know that in different parts of Africa, wherever chimps have been studied, there are completely different tool-using behaviors.
But the kids do ask me -- and this won't take more than two minutes, I promise -- the kids say, "Dr. Jane, do you really have hope for the future?
They shoot everything, every single thing that moves that's bigger than a small rat; they sun-dry it or smoke it.
It was, fortunately, one adult male whom I'd named David Greybeard -- and by the way, science at that time was telling me that I shouldn't name the chimps; they should all have numbers; that was more scientific.
She said, "If you're talking about hope and peace, ring this.
We find that they show emotions, similar to -- maybe sometimes the same -- as those that we describe in ourselves as happiness, sadness, fear, despair.
(Laughter) And this man, he has been outside, but he's gone back, and he was saying, "You know, we have suddenly jumped into a whole new era, and we didn't even know about the white man 50 years ago, and now here we are with laptop computers, and there are some things we want to learn from the modern world.
