So, I'll show you the six-year-old crashes as well.
If they're wearing a lap-and-shoulder belt, in this raw data, 19.4 percent die.
And I said, "That's a great idea."
And interestingly, wearing a lap-only seatbelt, 16.7 percent die.
And the people thought, "You know, you're right.
Here I have, among two- to six-year-olds -- anyone above six, basically no one uses car seats, so you can't compare -- 29.3 percent of the children who are unrestrained in a crash in which at least one person dies, themselves die.
The new car seats are far, far better."
In my data, and in another data set I've looked at for New Jersey crashes, I find very small differences in injury.
And the free cure is adult seatbelts, and the expensive cure -- the 300-million-dollar-a-year cure -- is child car seats.
So really, for the six-year-old, the car seat did absolutely nothing whatsoever.
The other possible conclusion is, well, maybe after coming to my father three times, getting sent home with placebos, he still felt sick, he went and found another doctor.
So the yellow bar represents car seats, the orange bar lap-and-shoulder, and the red bar lap-only seatbelts.
Steven Levitt: Yeah, that's a great question.
These are three-year-old dummies, by the way.
So, my dad always took that as evidence that this little, teeny, powerful pill had the ultimate placebo effect.
If you put a child in a car seat, 18.2 percent of the children die.
It's a true story about the United States today, and the disease I'm referring to is actually motor vehicle accidents for children.
And what you find is that the car seats and the lap-and-shoulder belts, when it comes to saving lives, fatalities look exactly identical.
I would like you to approve it for selling," then they would say, "This is a fantastic new car seat, it works great.
And he would say, listen, I know I gave you that huge pill, that complicated, hard-to-swallow pill before, but now I've got one that's so potent, that is really tiny and small and almost invisible.
