Probably the largest urban-renewal project, I think, ever attempted on the planet.
Wish one: world-changing.
And I thought, "My God, wouldn't that be something?"
It's an incredibly massive operation, I think 15,000 workers, five cupolas, and the sixth one's coming in here.
This is a high-tech mobile phone: Bird mobile phone, one of the largest mobile makers in China.
It has 90,000 employees making shoes.
In fact, even Shenzhen, the economic zone -- one of the first ones -- 15 years ago was about 100,000 people, and today it boasts about 10 to 11 million.
And coal-burning furnaces are going in there for hydroelectric power literally weekly.
This was one of the biggest factories I've ever seen.
So this created a reservoir 600 kilometers long, one of the largest reservoirs ever created.
And they're pre-puberty.
There hasn't been one built in North America for 20 years because of the "NIMBY" problem -- "Not In My BackYard."
They're called dengzahoos -- they're like pin tacks to the ground.
This is the coal supply for the steel factory -- 18 square kilometers.
It's around Westley, California, around Modesto.
This is one of the biggest shoe factories, the Yuyuan shoe factory near Shenzhen.
Here is a sign that, translated, says, "Obey the birth control law.
I did a 360 turnaround, and that became one of the most surreal landscapes I've ever seen.
But in China they're saying, "No, we're putting in 27 in the next 10 years."
And wish three is: Imax film.
And I think, quite frankly, that's where I started.
They were just wound up doing these things all day long, until the manager had to, with a stern voice, say, "Okay, everybody freeze."
I think everybody should do it -- think that you've got three wishes.
And this is like 10 weeks later, demolished by hand.
These are just recently shot -- I just came back about a month ago, so you're the first ones to be seeing these, these new factory pictures I've taken.
So this is a series I'm hoping to have ready in about two or three years, under the heading of "The Oil Party."
I think all schools could use extra equipment, extra cash -- it's going to be an incentive for them to do that.
There's 21,000 employees.
(Applause) I want to dedicate my wishes to my two girls.
And the scale of my work, and the kinds of ideas I'm playing with -- when I first saw an Imax film, I almost immediately thought, "There's a real resonance between what I'm trying to do and the scale of what I try to do as a photographer."
And I also thought there should be a nice prize for the best artwork for "In My World."
So I'm looking, really, for a mentor, because I just had my birthday.
