You've got two options.
The traditional view, still enshrined in much of the way that we think about creativity -- in organizations, in government -- is that creativity is about special people: wear baseball caps the wrong way round, come to conferences like this, in special places, elite universities, R&D labs in the forests, water, maybe special rooms in companies painted funny colors, you know, bean bags, maybe the odd table-football table.
Over here, you've got the old, traditional corporate model: special people, special places; patent it, push it down the pipeline to largely waiting, passive consumers.
30 years later, rap music is the dominant musical form of popular culture -- would never have come from the big companies.
Now, six amateur astronomers, working with the Internet, with Dobsonian digital telescopes -- which are pretty much open source -- with some light sensors developed over the last 10 years, the Internet -- they can do what Jodrell Bank could only do 30 years ago.
Twenty years ago, 30 years ago, only big professional astronomers with very big telescopes could see far into space.
Over here, let's imagine we've got Wikipedia, Linux, and beyond -- open source.
When I started in journalism -- Financial Times, 20 years ago -- it was very, very exciting to see someone reading the newspaper.
Best example: who in the music industry, 30 years ago, would have said, "Yes, let's invent a musical form which is all about dispossessed black men in ghettos expressing their frustration with the world through a form of music that many people find initially quite difficult to listen to.
Or you can get on a plane, fly to Shanghai, queue up outside Shanda's offices -- cost probably 600, 700 dollars -- and reclaim your character, get your history back.
I was in Shanghai, in an office block built on what was a rice paddy five years ago -- one of the 2,500 skyscrapers they've built in Shanghai in the last 10 years.
Because traditional economic theory would say, well, the mountain bike was probably invented by some big bike corporation that had a big R&D lab where they were thinking up new projects, and it came out of there.
Thirty years later, mountain bike sales and mountain bike equipment account for 65 percent of bike sales in America.
I've invented this brilliant new program that is much, much better than Microsoft Outlook."
New organizational models coming about, mixing closed and open in tricky ways.
The first is: imagine yourself going to a venture capitalist and saying, "I've got a fantastic idea.
